Web Browser:

a web browser is a software which displays web pages when the users request.

How Web Browsers Work over the internet ?

a web browser mainly consists following parts they are :-

1.UI Interface
2.Browser Engine
3.Rendering Engine
4.Networking
5.JavaScript Interpreter
6.UI Backend
7.Data Storage


1.UI Interface : The user interface is the space where User interacts with the browser.

2.Browser Engine : The browser engine works as a bridge between the User interface and the rendering engine.
  According to the inputs from various user interfaces, it queries and manipulates the rendering engine.

3.Rendering Engine :  The rendering engine, as the name suggests is responsible for rendering the
requested web page on the browser screen. The rendering engine interprets the HTML, XML documents
and images that are formatted using CSS and generates the layout that is displayed in the User Interface.
However, using plugins or extensions, it can display other types data also. Different browsers user
different rendering engines:

* Internet Explorer: Trident
* Firefox & other Mozilla browsers: Gecko
* Chrome & Opera 15+: Blink
* Chrome (iPhone) & Safari: Webkit

4.Networking :  Component of the browser which retrieves the URLs using the common internet protocols
of HTTP or FTP. The networking component handles all aspects of Internet communication and security.
The network component may implement a cache of retrieved documents in order to reduce network traffic.

5.JavaScript Interpreter : It is the component of the browser which interprets and executes the
javascript code embedded in a website. The interpreted results are sent to the rendering engine
for display. If the script is external then first the resource is fetched from the network.
Parser keeps on hold until the script is executed.

6.UI Backend : UI backend is used for drawing basic widgets like combo boxes and windows.
This backend exposes a generic interface that is not platform specific. It underneath
uses operating system user interface methods.

7.Data Storage : This is a persistence layer. Browsers support storage mechanisms such as
localStorage, IndexedDB, WebSQL and FileSystem. It is a small database created on the local
drive of the computer where the browser is installed. It manages user data such as cache,
cookies, bookmarks and preferences.